For our CSCI 4022 Data Science Spring Final Project, we chose to explore Spotify data to understand how songs can be grouped by audio characteristics and patterns in listening behavior. We wanted to use our data science skills to analyze song features and learn more about the relationships among the music that people listen to. 

The methods we used for this project are K-means clustering and Market Basket Analysis. K-means clustering is a method that groups similar data points into clusters without needing labeled data. It is used to uncover hidden patterns when the goal is to organize data based on similarity. Market Basket Analysis is a technique used to identify products frequently purchased together. In this scenario, we treat playlists as transactions and tracks as products.

We aim to answer multiple questions during our exploration of this dataset. We are curious how the vibe of a playlist is defined by certain features of its songs, and whether similar songs tend to appear in groups or are typically grouped. We used K-means and Market Basket Analysis to answer questions concerning how playlists vary by “vibe” and how to relate songs. Specifically, we used K-means to represent playlists by their song features and cluster by music taste, analyzing how many different clusters we typically get across playlists, along with comparing and determining relationships between multiple attributes. Market Basket Analysis was used to find song combinations that frequently occur together in playlists and to generate association rules for music recommendations.
